## The VisionEval Project

The second Strategic Highway Research Program (SHRP 2) sponsored development of the Rapid Policy Assessment Tool (RPAT) based on the earlier GreenSTEP system developed by Oregon DOT (ODOT).  ODOT independently extended GreenSTEP into the Regional Strategic Planning Model (RSPM) to provide support for specific metropolitan planning needs.  GreenSTEP continues to be of interest to states beyond Oregon as they analyze energy and emissions.  With SHRP 2 implementation funds granted to ODOT and additional support from FHWA and AASHTO the VisionEval project umbrella was created to coordinate and merge the successful RPAT, GreenSTEP and RSPM strategic planning tools into a common open-source framework.

By providing a common framework for the existing related models, VisionEval will facilitate the continuous improvement of the models, allowing modules designed to enhance one particular model (such as adding a multi-modal transportation module to RSPM) to be applied to other models as well (specifically, RPAT and the original GreenSTEP). The VisionEval framework will provide tools and resources for models at different spatial scales (such as regional and state-wide models), speeding the development of new strategic models as well as extensions to existing models.  In addition, VisionEval will provide tools to present the output of these models in a compelling manner for decision-makers.

These tools have attracted considerable interest from other agencies, and a Pooled Fund led by FHWA and including a number of State and regional planning agencies was launched in June 2016 to accelerate the development, deployment and adoption of strategic planning tools to better support responsive performance-based planning.  In addition to further developing the VisionEval framework and associated models, the pooled fund will engage users in addition to the fund partners, maintain a forum to share best practices in the application of these tools, and to build interest in VisionEval that will support continued development at the completion of the pooled fund.  The goal of the Pooled Fund is to support a broad array of potential tool uses and enable pooled enhancements to expand the types of outcomes measured or refine the specificity of transportation and land use solutions considered.
