index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: VisionEval
---

<a href="http://www.github.com/visioneval/visioneval/wiki" target="_blank"><b>VisionEval</b></a> is a collaborative project to build a family of strategic tools for performance-based transportation planning into a single open-source programming framework. Strategic tools are designed to evaluate many alternative futures and policies to help state and metropolitan area governments address pressing issues, despite uncertainty. The common framework enables new model features to be added in a 'plug-and-play' fashion so they can be easily shared among models. Use the resources below to learn more about this exciting project and how your agency can get involved.

### Resources

- The collaborative development of VisionEval occurs on <a href="https://www.github.com/visioneval/visioneval" target="_blank">GitHub</a>.
- End User and Developer documentation can be found in the <a href="https://github.com/visioneval/visioneval/wiki" target="_blank">Wiki</a>. 
- For introductions to the key models of VisionEval, including the Regional Strategic Planning Model (RSPM) and the Rapid Policy Analysis Tool (RPAT), see the [About]({{ site.url }}/about) and [Users]({{ site.url }}/category/users) pages.

### Video introduction to VisionEval

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/w5xeV97rZug?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<!-- ### Partner agencies -->

<!-- Sidebar contents set by sidebar.html, sidebar-nav-links.html, and custom-nav-links.html. Currently using custom-nav-links to get order of links set manually. -->

Commit message:

Adding Concept Primer and Zephyr links

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: VisionEval
---

<div style="background-color:lightblue;border-style:double">
We are honored to announce that VisionEval has received the
<tt><b><a href="https://zephyrtransport.org/technical-achievement-award/" target = "_blank">Zephyr Foundation Exceptional Technical Achievement Award</a></b></tt>
 in 2021!
</div>


<a href="http://www.github.com/visioneval/visioneval/wiki" target="_blank"><b>VisionEval</b></a> is a collaborative project to build a family of strategic tools for performance-based transportation planning into a single open-source programming framework. Strategic tools are designed to evaluate many alternative futures and policies to help state and metropolitan area governments address pressing issues, despite uncertainty. The common framework enables new model features to be added in a 'plug-and-play' fashion so they can be easily shared among models. Use the resources below to learn more about this exciting project and how your agency can get involved.

### Resources

- The collaborative development of VisionEval occurs on <a href="https://www.github.com/visioneval/visioneval" target="_blank">GitHub</a>.
- End User and Developer documentation can be found in the <a href="https://github.com/visioneval/visioneval/wiki" target="_blank">Wiki</a>. 
- For introductions to the key models of VisionEval, including the Regional Strategic Planning Model (VE-RSPM) and the Rapid Policy Analysis Tool (VE-RPAT), see the [About]({{ site.url }}/about) and [Users]({{ site.url }}/category/users) pages.
- The <a href="https://visioneval.org/book" target="_blank"> Concept Primer </a> covers the concepts of VisionEval for transportation planners.

### Video introduction to VisionEval

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/w5xeV97rZug?rel=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<!-- ### Partner agencies -->

<!-- Sidebar contents set by sidebar.html, sidebar-nav-links.html, and custom-nav-links.html. Currently using custom-nav-links to get order of links set manually. -->
