---
layout: post
title: Work Underway for all Tools
excerpt: "Ongoing work as listed in the Development Roadmap page on GitHub."
modified: 
categories: users
tags: [models, enhancements]
image:
  feature: so-simple-sample-image-4-narrow.jpg
  credit: #
  creditlink: #
comments: false
share: false
---

The ongoing work involves:

* Outstanding work on the migration of RSPM, RPAT, and GreenSTEP to the VisionEval framework is outlined in the GitHub Wiki’s Modules & Packages and Roadmap pages. Once in a common framework, future enhancements of any tool should be usable by all other tools. For example, a module which captures multi-modal travel in VERSPM can also be used with VERPAT, as both models will use similar structures and share code.
* Updated Multi-Modal travel modules were built by PSU for VERSPM through a peer-reviewed ODOT Research project (completed in June 2017), which is anticipated to be integrated into VERSPM in early 2017. See GitHub wiki’s Roadmap page.
* In a pilot contributor Review Team effort completed in September 2017(documented on the GitHub wiki), a review team of agency partner, academic, and consultants reviewed industry code governance best practices, developed a VisionEval charter and review process, and piloted this process using the Multi-Modal travel modules as a test case code submittal for inclusion in the VisionEval repository. Documentation of these efforts can be found on the GitHub wiki. 
* ODOT’s contract also includes a couple other efforts that will continue into 2018.  These include a VisionEval Documentation Plan (including upgrades to VisionEval Developer orientation materials), and technical activities to increase the number of software developers familiar with and contributing to the VisionEval codebase. 

## Future Enhancements

VERSPM will be extended with additional modules via the pooled fund. These future enhancements are planned to be carried out in a way which can be used for RPAT and GreenSTEP as well as RSPM. A wish list of desired upgrades, reflecting agency partner priorities per an August 2016 Peer Exchange in Portland, is available at the GitHub Roadmap page.

In addition to new tool functionality, possible future enhancements might also include scenario planning support, such as case studies, reasonable ranges of various policy inputs, aids to facilitate transit and land use inputs, equity analyses, and peer review of VisionEval tools.
