---
layout: post
title: Links to additional resources
excerpt: " "
modified: 
categories: resources
tags: [models, resources]
image:
  feature: so-simple-sample-image-4-narrow.jpg
  credit: #
  creditlink: #
comments: false
share: false
---

The rationale and design for the VisionEval framework are documented by papers included in the project's <a href="https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval" target="_blank">GitHub repository</a> they include the following documents. Check the repository for the latest documents because the framework is still under development.

###  <a href="https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/wiki/documents/VisionEval_HandOut_2016PeerExchange.pdf" target="_blank">VisionEval Strategic Tools for Performance-Based Planning</a>
This paper provides an overview of VisionEval as a model system for implementing analysis tools to support long range performance-based planning.

### <a href="https://github.com/visioneval/VisionEval/blob/master/api/rspm_framework_approach.md" target="_blank">VisionEval: A New Framework for the GreenSTEP Family of Models: Overview and Approach</a>

This paper describes the rationale and project approach.

### <a href="https://github.com/gregorbj/VisionEval/blob/master/api/model_system_design.md" target="_blank">VisionEval Model System and Framework Design</a>

This paper goes into more depth on how the framework fits into a model system and the design of that system and the framework.

### <a href="https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/p5rele3rf8o/" target="_blank">TMIP Webinar: Introduction to GreenSTEP, the RSPM and Related Strategic Planning Models.</a>
This is the first of a three-part webinar series on the GreenSTEP and RSPM models. This webinar focused on:
- The motivation for building the GreenSTEP model and the policy issues it was built to analyze.
- Design overview and major features.
- Other related models (EERPAT, RPAT) and their differences.
- GreenSTEP and RSPM application examples.
- How the GreenSTEP and RSPM models are run.
- How to obtain the code and technical documentation for the GreenSTEP and RSPM models.

### <a href="https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/p4k5rg9luna/" target="_blank">TMIP Webinar: Design and Estimation of the GreenSTEP and RSPM Models.</a>
This is the second of a three-part webinar series on the GreenSTEP and RSPM models. This webinar focused on:
- Integrated model development process using R.
- Data and data preparation used in model development.
- Development of the household DVMT model.
- Development of the light-weight vehicles model.
- Development of the PHEV model.
- Development of the household budget model.
- Development of the congestion model.

### <a href="https://connectdot.connectsolutions.com/p52lbzs1qv0/" target="_blank">TMIP Webinar: VisionEval - A Modeling System for Building Strategic Planning Models.</a>
This is the third of a three-part webinar series on the GreenSTEP and RSPM models. This webinar focused on:
- The reasons for creating VisionEval.
- Model system objectives.
- Overview of the model system architecture.
- Key principles that enable 'plug-and-play' operation.
- Module structure and the packaging of modules.
- What happens behind the scenes when a model runs.
- How to download and use the code.
- Next steps.