category/users.md, before:

---
layout: category
title: Information for Users
excerpt: "An collection of resources for VisionEval users."
image:
  feature: so-simple-sample-image-4-narrow.jpg
search_omit: true
---

The work to date by the founding FHWA-Oregon DOT partnership has focused on the technical components of establishing the common programming framework so that enhancements made in one model can be readily transferred to other models. Modules in the VisionEval common framework will work in consistent geographic scales so modules built for one will be usable in the others.  This common geography can either be directly input or synthesized. Efforts are also underway to build a supportive community around the tool, drawing from successful past and interested future users nationally, who will both define the policy needs and uses of these tools, and set their direction moving forward. A 	<a href="https://tmip.org/forum"><strong>VisionEval forum on TMIP</strong></a> has been established to discuss the use of VisionEval models. 

The VisionEval framework is based on the following models.

<ul class="post-list">
{% for post in site.categories.users %} 
  <li>
  <article>
			<a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} {% if post.excerpt %} <span class="excerpt">{{ post.excerpt | remove: '\[ ... \]' | remove: '\( ... \)' | markdownify | strip_html | strip_newlines | escape_once }}</span>{% endif %}</a>
  </article>
  </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Use cases

The following use cases have been developed for the Rapid Policy Analysis Tool (RPAT). Click the links for detailed case studies:

- [Durham-Chapel Hill-Carrboro Metropolitan Planning Organization (DCHC)]({{ site.url }}/assets/refs/2016_RPAT_Case_Study_DCHC.pdf) used RPAT to assess impacts of policies such as transit oriented development and smart growth development on regional travel behavior.
- [Delware Valley Regional Planning Commission (DVRPC)]({{ site.url }}/assets/refs/2016_RPAT_Case_Study_DVRPC.pdf) compared RPAT to their Travel Improvement Model and a GIS-based land use forecasting model.
- [Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) and the Corvallis Area Metropolitan Planning Organization (CAMPO)]({{ site.url }}/assets/refs/2016_RPAT_Case_Study_ODOT.pdf) used both RPAT and RSPM to test hundreds of scenarios for policies on land use, parking, mode choice, and transportation options.


## Learn more

<ul class="post-list">
<li>
	<article>
	<a href="https://tmip.org/forum">TMIP Forum for Discussion of VisionEval</a>. See instructions <a href="https://tmip.org/content/visioneval-discussion-forum-now-open-updatednow-works#new">here</a> to join the forum.
	</article>
</li>
	
{% for post in site.categories.resources %} 
  <li>
  <article>
			<a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} {% if post.excerpt %} <span class="excerpt">{{ post.excerpt | remove: '\[ ... \]' | remove: '\( ... \)' | markdownify | strip_html | strip_newlines | escape_once }}</span>{% endif %}</a>
  </article>
  </li>
{% endfor %}
	
</ul>

## Interactive viewers

<ul class="post-list">
{% for post in site.categories.interactive %} 
  <li>
  <article>
			<a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} {% if post.excerpt %} <span class="excerpt">{{ post.excerpt | remove: '\[ ... \]' | remove: '\( ... \)' | markdownify | strip_html | strip_newlines | escape_once }}</span>{% endif %}</a>
  </article>
  </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>



<!-- removed between title and excerpt: <span class="entry-date"><time datetime="{{ post.date | date_to_xmlschema }}">{{ post.date | date: "%B %d, %Y" }}</time></span> -->

Commit message:

Update to link to latest getting started doc
In both Users and Download page

category/users.md, after:

---
layout: category
title: Information for Users
excerpt: "An collection of resources for VisionEval users."
image:
  feature: so-simple-sample-image-4-narrow.jpg
search_omit: true
---

## Getting Started 

Please see this page on the VisionEval GitHub site for the [latest instructions for getting started](https://github.com/VisionEval/VisionEval/wiki/Getting-Started-v2).


## The VisionEval project

The work to date by the founding FHWA-Oregon DOT partnership has focused on the technical components of establishing the common programming framework so that enhancements made in one model can be readily transferred to other models. Modules in the VisionEval common framework will work in consistent geographic scales so modules built for one will be usable in the others.  This common geography can either be directly input or synthesized. Efforts are also underway to build a supportive community around the tool, drawing from successful past and interested future users nationally, who will both define the policy needs and uses of these tools, and set their direction moving forward. A 	<a href="https://tmip.org/forum"><strong>VisionEval forum on TMIP</strong></a> has been established to discuss the use of VisionEval models. 

The VisionEval framework is based on the following models.

<ul class="post-list">
{% for post in site.categories.users %} 
  <li>
  <article>
			<a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} {% if post.excerpt %} <span class="excerpt">{{ post.excerpt | remove: '\[ ... \]' | remove: '\( ... \)' | markdownify | strip_html | strip_newlines | escape_once }}</span>{% endif %}</a>
  </article>
  </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Use cases

The following use cases have been developed for the Rapid Policy Analysis Tool (RPAT). Click the links for detailed case studies:

- [Durham-Chapel Hill-Carrboro Metropolitan Planning Organization (DCHC)]({{ site.url }}/assets/refs/2016_RPAT_Case_Study_DCHC.pdf) used RPAT to assess impacts of policies such as transit oriented development and smart growth development on regional travel behavior.
- [Delware Valley Regional Planning Commission (DVRPC)]({{ site.url }}/assets/refs/2016_RPAT_Case_Study_DVRPC.pdf) compared RPAT to their Travel Improvement Model and a GIS-based land use forecasting model.
- [Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) and the Corvallis Area Metropolitan Planning Organization (CAMPO)]({{ site.url }}/assets/refs/2016_RPAT_Case_Study_ODOT.pdf) used both RPAT and RSPM to test hundreds of scenarios for policies on land use, parking, mode choice, and transportation options.


## Learn more

<ul class="post-list">
<li>
	<article>
	<a href="https://tmip.org/forum">TMIP Forum for Discussion of VisionEval</a>. See instructions <a href="https://tmip.org/content/visioneval-discussion-forum-now-open-updatednow-works#new">here</a> to join the forum.
	</article>
</li>
	
{% for post in site.categories.resources %} 
  <li>
  <article>
			<a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} {% if post.excerpt %} <span class="excerpt">{{ post.excerpt | remove: '\[ ... \]' | remove: '\( ... \)' | markdownify | strip_html | strip_newlines | escape_once }}</span>{% endif %}</a>
  </article>
  </li>
{% endfor %}
	
</ul>

## Interactive viewers

<ul class="post-list">
{% for post in site.categories.interactive %} 
  <li>
  <article>
			<a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }} {% if post.excerpt %} <span class="excerpt">{{ post.excerpt | remove: '\[ ... \]' | remove: '\( ... \)' | markdownify | strip_html | strip_newlines | escape_once }}</span>{% endif %}</a>
  </article>
  </li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>



<!-- removed between title and excerpt: <span class="entry-date"><time datetime="{{ post.date | date_to_xmlschema }}">{{ post.date | date: "%B %d, %Y" }}</time></span> -->
